Types:
1.Passive
2.Active

1.Passive:(OSINT - opensource intelligence)
Getting information withouth directly interacting the target 
getting info form third party sources,sites,DNS query...
gathering info in secracy

WHOIS:
Gathers info of the domain by DNS query

Search Engines(Gogole search):
ref:https://www.google.com/advanced_search
use this operators to gather info
https://www.exploit-db.com/google-hacking-database (GHDB)
https://dorksearch.com

Open source:
Search in Github,gitlab....online repositories for any information.

Shodan search:
gathers info about devices,protocol versions...

Security headers:
check the security response headers are in place - https://securityheaders.com

TLS/SSL scan:
check for any TLS misconfig - https://www.ssllabs.com/ssltest/


Active:
Gathers info by interacting with target.

DNS Enumeration:
DNS(Domain name resolver) is a distributed databse contains domain name - associated IP
Records,
NS: Nameserver records contain the name of the authoritative servers hosting the DNS records for a domain.
A: Also known as a host record, the "a record" contains the IPv4 address of a hostname (such as www.megacorpone.com).
AAAA: Also known as a quad A host record, the "aaaa record" contains the IPv6 address of a hostname (such as www.megacorpone.com).
MX: Mail Exchange records contain the names of the servers responsible for handling email for the domain. A domain can contain multiple MX records.
PTR: Pointer Records are used in reverse lookup zones and can find the records associated with an IP address.
CNAME: Canonical Name Records are used to create aliases for other host records.
TXT: Text records can contain any arbitrary data and be used for various purposes, such as domain ownership verification.

commands to DNS:
"host" command used to get records of domain 
"dnsrecon" - kali linus commad to automate dns recon.
There are various tool for dns in open source.

"nslookup" - similar

TCP/UDP Port Scanning;
Netcat a basic commad tool for scan(nc)




